X-Cash provides:

Private/Public choice
Decentralized, anonymous, & fair governance
Dynamic block sizes: Breathing blocks 
Decentralized database

Decentralized layer 2s
Multi-language Smart contracts
Cross-chain interoperability
Python library

JS library
dAPPS
NFTs
X-DEX

Instant payments
anonymous voting protocol
Social account tipping 
Merchant system

String CTs

----

Key Features

X-Cash is a developer-friendly open source project, with an energy-efficent blockchain built with a security-first & modularly upgradable design philosophy.

Born from Monero's codebase in 2018, the X-Cash blockchain has evolved to bring new features to the private cryptocurrency space. 
To modernise Monero for the Web3, the following technological pillars were built upon:

Public/Private
Transactions
Like cash, you retain control.

Private Delegated Proof Of Stake
Ground up redesign of DPOS with an optimised CryptoNote

Decentralized Side-chains
Supercharged security in all areas of our expansive network

X-Green
Energy-efficient & Sustainable

----

Public/Private Transactions

The end user is the ultimate authority on how their funds are managed, and we provide tools for the user.

Private/ Public send
One single wallet on our blockchain can be used to perform public and private transaction at the discretion of the user. 
This enables anonymity to be used when privacy is needed while allowing for transparent transactions when required.

Private/ Public receive
X-Cash offers the choice to receive only private or only public transactions to an address, and of course just like private send, 
unconditional transactions are the default setting.

Private Stake
‍Always putting the user experience first, X-Cash is the first blockchain to offer this feature with such a high level of ease from the user perspective.

Secured & Unfalsifiable
Private and public transactions are cryptographically signed in large fixed ring sized transactions.

----

Delegated
Proof-of-Private-Stake

Built to remove scaling limitations, while enhancing overall security, X-Cash's blockchain expands processing capabilities through its Private implementation of DPOS, thus enabling 
the crypto playground for all to coalesce.

Staking
The X-Cash Public Network is secured by delegates, elected in their position by XCASH holders. By providing your vote through a stake in XCASH, 
you are electing a representative to secure the network and forge new blocks, which will in return split the block reward with you.

DBFT
‍The unique implementation of DBFT into the consensus process enables the X-Cash blockchain to become immune to forks, henceforth instantly validating new transactions.

Randomized Block Producer Selection
The selection of the next delegate in charge of forging a block is completely randomized through the use of Verifiable Random Functions (VRF), increasing the security of the delegates by preventing attacks to the next block producer.

Stake Delegation with Reserve Proofs
Instead of sending your stake to another wallet to vote toward a delegate, you are providing a cryptographic reserve proof of your funds to your delegate, meaning that you keep complete control of your stake at all times. 

----

Decentralized Sidechains


X-Cash's true innovation relies in its capacity to spawn new blockchains on demand. Because these blockchain are directly hosted by the delegates, they are secured, customizable, 
& economical.

No hardware needed
A sidechain is a full blockchain which is hosted by the delegates. This means that contrary to traditional blockchains, you do not need to rent your own infrastructure.
‍
Easy to code and customizable
The deployment of a sidechain is fully automated and does not require extensive coding skills. Thanks to X-Blockchain modules, you can even choose an already customized blockchain that
matches your needs.

Symmetrically secure
All nodes operate side chains with implicit consent from all other nodes as part of X-Cash's inherited security model.

Technological arms race
Delegate nodes will be concurrently in a race to secure the highest spec system resources in order to achieve the block rewards for appending decentralised database entries of time
sensitive-transactions by:

#1 Maintaining low network latency and competitive CPU and RAM to be able to process incoming txs, and parse then store tx data.
#2 Maintaining appropriate network speed to be able to sync with the rest of our nodes.

Cost effective and scalable
Because a sidechain is your blockchain, you can set how many delegates will host it and how many sidechains you will need. Therefore, sidechains can perfectly match and grow with your 
needs which makes them cost effective. 

----

X-Green

(Green + Clean) + Blockchain = X-Cash

An Energy-Efficient Algorithm.
Unlike Proof-of-Work blockchains like Bitcoin or Ethereum, or POS blockchains which require wallets to remain open, X-Cash's Private DPOS requires significantly less 
energy making it the ideal platform for building eco-friendly blockchain applications.

Eco proofs
Our use of reserve proofs free devices from obligation to remain open in order to receive stake rewards, therefore giving the voted for delegate the task of distributing rewards:
reward status can be verified by plugging into our delegate explorer API, or with a third-party integration.

Extremely low 
Through our internal monitoring, we concluded that X-Cash's blockchain uses the equivalent of < 4 Toasters using the following workings:

[Show workings here]

however, while we're confident that this estimate is accurate, we encourage you to dispute this claim and if a more accurate counter assessment is made (with 
demonstrable workings) then we will update the figures along with workings: and give you credit where it is due.

----

Stake and earn passive income

Earn more XCASH with your computer off!

Staking
The days of constantly checking that your computer is up staking are long gone. With only 2million xcash you can vote for a delegate, 
(need to describe delegate stuff in another bullet point) turn off your computer and enjoy your worry-free day.

DBFT
‍LOREM IPSUM

Randomized Block Producer Selection
With the presence of Verifiable random functions (VRF), you can rest assured that you have equal chance of receiving a stake with any other
staking wallet. VRF force true random and unanticipatable delegate block producer selection, which also bolsters our network's security by removing
the chance of attack on the next elected delegate node. 

Stake Delegation with Reserve Proofs
Instead of sending your stake to another wallet to vote toward a delegate, you are providing a cryptographic reserve proof of your funds to your delegate, 
meaning that you keep complete control of your stake at all times. 
